on this let's bring in outgoing
conservative leader andrew scheer
and good to have you thanks for spending
some time with us to talk about this mr
shire
thanks for having me on the show to uh
give me the opportunity
yeah you bet so you know we just heard
from peter mckay he says it's crass it's
using the tragedy for political purposes
what do you think
well i think there are two very
unfortunate things here one
is that the prime minister is choosing
to do this at this time
with the house of commons effectively
suspended
when the whole nation is gripped by the
coronavirus and the response to it
we don't believe that well there is no
opportunity for
parliamentarians to hold the government
to account to question the wisdom of
their
policies that this is not the time to be
making important policy
uh changes in addition to do so so
quickly off the heels of a tragedy in
nova scotia
a tragedy which was committed by an
individual who did not
who did not have a valid license
therefore all the firearms that he owned
were illegal we believe that this is uh
this is unacceptable
uh conservatives believe in effective
gun control that keeps the
keeps firearms out of the hands of
dangerous offenders
not simply asking law-abiding canadians
to follow more rules or more laws
yeah and and interesting though to note
i mean in terms of nova scotia shooter
two
of the long guns that he used um yes
were illegal um but are also on that
list
to ban but what would you say for can
and certainly on the heels of
any shooting tragedy here in the united
states or anywhere
there is a bubble up of concern about
gun violence in general not surprising
that people would say now is the time to
do exactly that
well again just just to reinforce the
point because the shooter in nova scotia
did not have a license that means that
all his firearms were illegal and
obviously unfortunately tragically that
did not
prevent disperse
and what we're saying is that yes
anytime there's a tragedy we need to
look at what happened we have major
questions as to why it took so long for
the rcmp to issue warnings
how this individual obtained what seems
to be very authentic looking
uniforms of course we should be asking
questions about what happened and what
lessons
could be learned the overwhelming
majority of homicides committed in
canada are done so with illegal firearms
smuggled firearms
guns coming in from the united states
and other countries
we believe that it's lazy ineffective
government to take all the people who
follow all the rules in canada and say
here are some more rules for you to
follow
and meanwhile uh organized criminals
and drug dealers who don't care which
laws they're breaking
uh that we don't address them
and and what conservatives are saying is
when it comes to precious resources that
police departments have let's go after
the criminals let's let's have more
inspections at our border let's have uh
bigger task forces that can penetrate
criminal organizations and let's get
those illegal guns off the street that
is what will actually make our community
safer
right and and when canadians are pulled
on this mr chairman
yes they say you know you go after the
guns and gangs and there's
initiatives underway to do go after guns
and gangs and some
um border and put on that over the past
couple years but when you look at the
the polls that come in 61 of canadians
in in one of the most recent polls
said that they'd support a complete ban
on assault rifles
and handguns and that number jumps to 75
when you're talking about just a simple
assault ban
assault rifle ban well you know uh
what we're looking at is what experts in
police organizations tell us they tell
us that what they're dealing with on the
streets of toronto what they're dealing
with in the streets of vancouver
are smuggled firearms there are people
who are sawing off shotguns and and
sawing off rifles there are people who
are
obtaining illegal handguns and bringing
them into canada
that is what is leading to the largest
number
of homicides and we have a great deal of
sympathy and compassion for
people who have been affected by violent
crime we just
continue to believe the evidence shows
that when you can stop the flow of
illegal firearms have stronger
background checks to make sure that
people with
you know for example a history of a
violent activity in their life or with
uh
with mental health issues that would uh
be a red flag in terms of
future behavior uh that though that is
where government should be concerned
that will actually have
a better impact on making our streets
safer what the liberals are
so famous for doing uh is is
getting the gestures you know
they look for gestures and and and they
don't look at the substance so
again it's lazy government to ask a
whole bunch of people who are already
following all the rules
to follow more rules to get that drug
dealer uh who's
who's transporting cocaine from one part
of the community to another to care
about what type of classification his
smuggled firearm is
i mean it's ridiculous we'd rather
rather see those resources and that time
and energy
those people off the street and those
guns out of our communities
well the so the ban um has gone into
place today effective immediately they
didn't need legislation
to do it um but they will need
legislation if they want to
implement a buy-back program which they
talk which they say is going to be
coming in
and so there i mean one would think that
there would be an opportunity would you
support at that point whether it's at a
reduced
you know house of commons or a virtual
session would you support
the buy-back to this well
as you point out they made this
announcement through regulations which
means that there's no vote in the house
of commons
but even so you know when governments
make major policy changes to do so when
the house of commons has been
effectively shut down by the government
i might add eliminating
eighty percent of the parliamentary
settings where you don't really have the
opportunity
to question the government for things
unrelated to the coronal virus
you know we believe that that is
undemocratic for them to proceed
in that way uh you know we generally
don't support liberal measures
empty gestures that go after law abiding
canadians when
those resources could be put to good use
at our borders and
in our police detachments that's what
conservatives will continue to push for
stronger background checks more
effective inspections
and task force to get those guns off
issues that's what we would support
uh that is what we will be calling on
the government to do
and before i let you go mr just because
people ask this all the time
i mean for for those that are are not in
favor of assault rifles they would say
why have an assault rifle why have a
military-style weapon
anyway even if it's legal and looked
after why have it
well you know there are millions of
canadians who who enjoy
sports shooting who who enjoy uh
recreational activities the legal
recreational activities with their
firearms and what we're saying is that
the the the onus is really on the
government to explain
how this will be effective and all the
evidence shows that it won't be
so what we're saying is it's not a
question of whether or not some some
canadians
do or don't want uh these types of
things to be
legal it's what is the most effective
way for the government to keep our
our community safe and we don't believe
again you know to
picture all the millions of canadians
who have their valid licenses who follow
safe storage laws who
uh call to get appropriate permits when
they transport their firearms
who go to and from ranges they follow
all the rules now we're saying we're
going to ask all those people
to follow a few more rules and anybody
who thinks that that's going to get
dangerous weapons off our street or
prevent the types of tragedies that
we've seen
the evidence is just not there this
individual in nova scotia
did not have a license every single
firearm he had was already
illegal and we shouldn't justin true
should not be using a very emotional
tragedy
as an excuse to get a policy change put
in that he's long you know
his ideological commitment to to this is
long-standing
and especially the time when parliament
isn't seen
we will leave it there andrew scheer
thank you very much for weighing in